Add how-to and default db name (#1)
subsquid/squid-template: FAQ.md

# How-to cheat sheet

## How to run a processor against a different chain?

You will need to have WebSocket endpoint to connect to the chain node and a Squid Archive. For a registry of Squid Archives, check this community-owned [Archive Registry](https://github.com/subsquid/archive-registry)

If you don't find a suitable Squid Archive in the registry, set up your own Squid archive. There are multiple examples in this [repo](https://github.com/subsquid/squid-archive-setup)

Once set up, we encourage to contribute to the Squid community and make a PR to the [Archive Registry](https://github.com/subsquid/archive-registry).

> ## Where do I get a type bundle for my chain?

Reviewer: It is worth to add, that "types bundle" which squid expects is slightly different from polkadot.js.

This is how it goes:

```js
{
  types: {}, // as `.types` option of `ApiPromise`
  typesAlias: {}, // as `.typesAlias` option of `ApiPromise`
  versions: [ // this is different
    {
       minmax: [0, 100] // as in polkadot
       types: {}, // as `.types` option of `ApiPromise`
       typesAlias: {}, // as `.typesAlias` option of `ApiPromise`
    }
  ]
}
```

It might be a bad decision to drop full compatibility with polkadot.js, but this is how it works right now.

Typically, the API is consumed by the frontend and mobile apps, so it's a good idea to design the schema even before you go on with implementing the processor mappings. In fact, the processor is completely indpendent from the GraphQL server serving the API, so you can experiment how the API looks like.

## How do I update my schema?

So here's a step-by-step instruction. First, generated the model files:

```sh
npx sqd codegen
npm run build
```

Now you have to options: either create a migration for an incremental schema update or recreate the whole schema from scratch. 

During the development process, recreating the schema is often more convenient. However, if you already have a running API in production and don't want to resync it, having an incremental update is more preferrable (but requires data backfilling).

### Option 1: Make an incremental update to the schema

Generate a migration for the incremental changes and apply it
```

> npx -r dotenv/config sqd db create-migration AddMyAwesomeNewField

Reviewer 2: I wondered this when I saw the quickstart on the Readme. I thought it was temporary, can it be fixed in any way? Like, it would be nice to be able to launch the processor with a simpler command, without params.
Clearly not a top priority, just curiosity and for your consideration...

> npx -r dotenv/config sqd db create-migration AddMyAwesomeNewField

Reviewer: Well, alternatively you can put `import "dotenv/config"` at the top of processor file.

npx -r dotenv/config sqd db migrate
```

You can find the newly generated and applied migration in `db/migrations`.

### Option 2: Recreate schema from scratch

To reset the database and recreate the schema from scratch:

```
npx -r dotenv/config sqd db drop
npx -r dotenv/config sqd db create
```

Remove the old migrationa and create a new init migration:

```
rm -rf db/migrations
npx -r dotenv/config db create-migration Init
```

Apply the migration:

```
npx -r dotenv/config db migrate
```

## How do I run and test the GraphQL API?

Once the migrations are applied, simply run

```

> npm run query-node:start

Reviewer: How about changing this to `npm run api`?

Reviewer 2: Same as my previous comment, if we can make the most used commands shorter and easier, I think it would be ideal.

## So how do I start the processor?

First, make sure you have compiled your project with
```
npm run build
```

Then simply run 
```
node -r dotenv/config lib/processor.js
```

## How do I know which events and extrinsics I need for the handlers? 

This part depends on the runtime business-logic of the chain. The primary and the most reliable source of information is thus the Rust sources for the pallets used by the chain. 
For a quick lookup of the documentation and the data format it is often useful to check `Runtime` section of Subscan, e.g. for [Statemine](https://statemine.subscan.io/runtime). One can see the deployed pallets and drill down to events and extrinsics from there. One can also choose the spec version on the drop down.

## How do I decode the event data? And how to deal with runtime upgrades?

Runtime upgrades may change the event data and even the event logic altogether, but Squid gets you covered with a first-class support for runtime upgrades. 

Subsquid SDK comes with a tool called metadata explorer which makes it easy to keep track of all runtime upgrades happen so far.

> The basic usage of the explorer is as follows (check also README):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The basic usage of the explorer is as follows (check README for more details):
```

```sh
npx squid-substrate-metadata-explorer \
  --chain <chain endpoint here> \
  --archive <archive endpoint here> \
  --out metadataVersions.json
```

Once it's generated, define all events and calls of interest in `typegen.json`, adjust the bundle and metadata history references and run

```sh
npx squid-substrate-typegen typegen.json
```

> A type-safe definition for each and every version of the event will be generated. Most of the times, one should be able to have a simple generic interface together with an runtime version specific adaptors. For example, for Kusama `balances.Transfer` event typegen generated three slightly different versions which can be easily reconciled as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A type-safe definition for each and every version of the event will be generated. Most of the times, one should be able to have a simple generic interface together with runtime version-specific adaptors. For example, for Kusama `balances.Transfer` event, `squid-substrate-typegen` generated three slightly different versions which can be easily reconciled as follows:
```
